.TH "GIT-PULL-REQUEST" "1" "February 1, 2022" "Numonic
0.0.1-alpha" "Numonic Manual"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.SH NAME
.PP
git-pull-request - prepares a new commit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]git\f[R] \f[B]pull-request\f[R] <\f[I]branch\f[R]>
[<\f[I]upstream\f[R]>] [\f[B]-p\f[R][<\f[I]origin\f[R]>] |
[\f[B]--push\f[R][\f[B]=\f[R]<\f[I]origin\f[R]>]] [\f[B]-dr\f[R] |
\f[B]--dry-run\f[R]] [\f[B]-d\f[R] | \f[B]--debug\f[R]] [\f[B]-h\f[R] |
\f[B]--help\f[R]]
.PP
\f[B]git\f[R] \f[B]pull-request\f[R] \f[B]-b\f[R] <\f[I]branch\f[R]>
[\f[B]-u\f[R] <\f[I]upstream\f[R]>] [\f[B]-p\f[R] [<\f[I]origin\f[R]>]]
.PP
\f[B]git\f[R] \f[B]pull-request\f[R]
\f[B]--branch=\f[R]<\f[I]branch\f[R]>
[\f[B]--upstream=\f[R]<\f[I]upstream\f[R]>]
[\f[B]--push\f[R][\f[B]=\f[R]<\f[I]origin\f[R]>]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command creates a new commit on the current HEAD branch and
performs a rebase of the specified <\f[I]branch\f[R]> on the specified
<\f[I]remote\f[R]>, which should bring the current branch up to date for
a linear, fast-forward only pull request.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS <branch>, -b <branch>, --branch=<branch>
.PP
name of the branch used to rebase the current branch from the origin
DEFAULT: main | master
.SS <upstream>, -u <upstream>, --upstream=<upstream>
.PP
name of the upstream used to rebase the current branch DEFAULT: upstream
| origin
.SS -p, -p <origin>, --push, --push=<origin>
.PP
push the newly created commit to the optionally specified origin
DEFAULT: origin
.SS -i, --interactive
.PP
perform an interactive rebase with the upstream remote
.SS -dr, --dry-run
.PP
print the branch, origin, and start point without creating the actual
branch
.SS -h, --help
.PP
print this help information
.SS -d, --debug
.PP
print the commands as they are executed (set -x)
.SH DEFAULTS
.PP
If a branch name is not specified, then \f[B]main\f[R] will be used.
If \f[B]main\f[R] does not exist on the upstream, a fallback to
\f[B]master\f[R] will be used.
We highly recommend renaming \f[B]master\f[R] branches in projects to
\f[B]main\f[R] as support for the fallback will be removed in a future
version.
.PP
If the \f[B]--upstream\f[R] remote is not specified, then
\f[B]upstream\f[R] will be used.
If \f[B]upstream\f[R] does not exist as a remote, then \f[B]origin\f[R]
will be used.
This is intended to support contributions made using both forks and
feature branches.
We recommend using a feature branch even on forks as the git extensions
support updating the origin from the remote for the main branch.
.PP
If the \f[B]--push\f[R] flag is specified without specifing a remote,
then \f[B]origin\f[R] will be used.
By default, this command will not push the newly minted commit to the
origin.
The use of the \f[B]--push\f[R] flag is required to enable this
behaviour.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS git pull-request
.PP
prepare a pull request commit by rebasing the current head on the
upstream remote using the main branch
.SS git pull-request next
.SS git pull-request -b next
.SS git pull-request --branch=next
.PP
prepare a pull request commit by rebasing the current HEAD on the
upstream remote using the next branch
.SS git pull-request next shared
.SS git pull-request -b next -u shared
.SS git pull-request --branch=next --upstream=shared
.PP
prepare a pull request commit by rebasing the current HEAD on the shared
remote using the next branch
.SS git pull-request --push
.PP
prepare a pull request commit by rebasing the current head on the
upstream remote using the main branch; then push the commits to the
origin remote using the current branch name
.SS git pull-request -u shared -p shared
.SS git pull-request --upstream=shared --push=shared
.PP
prepare a pull request commit by rebasing the current HEAD on the shared
remote using the main branch; then push the commit to the shared remote
using the current branch name
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]git-commit-all\f[R](1), \f[B]git-push\f[R](1)
.SH AUTHORS
Scott K. Garan
