.TH "INSTALL-PODMAN" "1" "November 18, 2021" "Numonic
0.0.1-alpha" "Numonic Manual"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.SH NAME
.PP
install-podman - installs podman, skopeo, and all prerequisites for the
current platform required to build and run containers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]install-podman\f[R] [\f[B]-d\f[R] | \f[B]--debug\f[R]]
[\f[B]-f\f[R] | \f[B]--force\f[R]] [\f[B]-h\f[R] | \f[B]--help\f[R]]
[\f[B]-q\f[R] | \f[B]--quiet\f[R]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This installer will configure podman and a container runtime with full
support for bind mounts, port-forwarding, and cross-platform build /
run.
The exact dependencies and configuration of podman is highly dependent
on the platform on which it is installed.
See the following sections for more information.
.SS MACOS
.PP
Installation of podman on macOS currently relies on
lima (https://github.com/lima-vm/lima) to enable bind mount capabilities
using sshfs.
The default \f[C]podman-machine\f[R] does not currently support bind
mounts, although support is coming soon.
We will continue to evaluate \f[C]podman-machine\f[R] as a native
solution.
.SS WSL
.PP
WSL 2 does not currently support systemd, so the podman socket is
initialised as a background process.
In addition, the cgroup manager must be set to cgroupfs and the events
logger is set to file.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS FLAGS
.SS -d, --debug
.PP
print the commands as they are executed (set -x)
.SS -f, --force
.PP
forces an installation / upgrade of podman and its dependencies even if
it is already installed
.SS -h, --help
.PP
print this help information
.SS -q, --quiet
.PP
suppress any output to stdout (any errors will still be printed)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS install-podman
.PP
installs podman if not already installed
.SS install-podman --force
.PP
installs or updates podman even if it is already installed this will
replace any existing dependencies, such as vms used to enable podman
support on platforms such as macOS
.SH AUTHORS
Deavon M. McCaffery
