.TH "USERENV-APPEND" "1" "November 10, 2021" "Numonic v8.1.0" "Numonic
Manual"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.SH NAME
.PP
userenv-append - appends a value to the end of a variable within the
user specific environment file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]userenv append\f[R] <\f[I]key\f[R]> <\f[I]value\f[R]> [\f[B]-s\f[R]
<\f[I]separator\f[R]>] [\f[B]-f\f[R] <\f[I]file\f[R]>] [\f[B]-h\f[R] |
\f[B]--help\f[R]]
.PP
\f[B]userenv append\f[R] <\f[I]key\f[R]>\f[B]=\f[R]<\f[I]value\f[R]>
[\f[B]--separator=\f[R]<\f[I]separator\f[R]>]
[\f[B]--file=\f[R]<\f[I]file\f[R]>] [\f[B]-h\f[R] | \f[B]--help\f[R]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command will append the specified value to the end of a variable
within the user specific environment file, typically located at
$HOME/.pam_environment.
If the variable does not already exist, it will be created using the
specified value.
An optional separator can be defined.
If the separator is not defined, then the value will be separated using
a colon (:).
.PP
If the specified value already exists within the variable, the command
will fail with an exit code of 2.
All other errors will return an exit code of 1.
.PP
Once the change has been made, it should be available within the current
shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS <key>
.PP
the key (or name) of the environment variable to append
.SS <value>
.PP
the value of the environment variable to append
.SS -s <separator>, --separator=<separator>
.PP
the separator to use when appending the value
.SS -f <file>, --file=<file>
.PP
the path of the environment file to read and write DEFAULT:
$HOME/.pam_environment
.SS -h, --help
.PP
print this help information
.SH DEFAULTS
.PP
If the separator is not specified, the default will be the colon (:)
character.
For example if a value of 123 is appended to an existing variable called
my_var with a value of abc, then the result will be: my_var=abc:123 by
default.
.PP
If no file is specified, then the default user specific environment file
location of $HOME/.pam_environment will be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS userenv append abc 123
.SS userenv append abc=123
.PP
append a variable named abc with a value of 123 using the default colon
as a separator
.SS userenv append abc 123 -s \[aq],\[aq]
.SS userenv append abc=123 --separator=\[aq],\[aq]
.PP
append a variable named abc with the value of 123 using a comma as a
separator
.SS userenv append abc 123 -f \[ti]/my-variables
.SS userenv append abc=123 --file=\[ti]/my-variables
.PP
append a variable named abc with a value of 123 from the specified file
($HOME/my-variables) using the default colon as a separator
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]userenv-prepend\f[R](1), \f[B]userenv-load\f[R](1),
\f[B]pam_env\f[R](7)
.SH AUTHORS
Deavon M. McCaffery
